## From PID to ADRC and back: expressing error-based
active disturbance rejection control schemes as standard
industrial 1DOF and 2DOF controllers
## Momir Stankovic1, He Ting2, Rafal Madonski
## 1Military Academy, University of Defence, Belgrade, Serbia
## 2Energy and Electricity Research Center, Jinan University, Zhuhai, China
## ∗E-mails: momir stankovic@yahoo.com, heting@jnu.edu.cn
## Abstract
## 1
## arXiv:2305.16705v1  [eess.SY]  26 May 2023
In this paper, we uncover a new connection between standard PI/PID controllers and
active disturbance rejection control (ADRC), from which we establish formal conditions
of equivalence between the two control schemes. Using the equivalence, we devise a step-
by-step procedure of transitioning from PI/PID to error-based ADRC. We also show how
to go from 1DOF to 2DOF ADRC while retaining a standard 2DOF PI/PID structure.
Both procedures facilitate expressing error-based ADRC schemes as standard industrial
1DOF and 2DOF controllers.
This allows the designed controller to have the desired
characteristic of ADRC (i.e. strong robustness against internal and external uncertainties)
while still being expressed in a form that is familiar to industrial practitioners, where
PI/PID structures are still the workhorse of modern control systems.
The results of
the paper ensure backward compatibility of future ADRC-based solutions and foster the
adoption of active disturbance rejection-based methods in industrial practice as a viable
alternative to standard controllers.
To further support the findings, a set of tests is
conducted in time and frequency domain, followed by a comparative analysis in FPGA-
in-the-loop simulation utilizing a realistic plant model.

Keywords— active disturbance rejection control (ADRC), PI/PID controller, 1DOF/2DOF con-
trol structure, equivalence conditions, FPGA-in-the-loop simulation

Acronyms&Abbreviations—
1DOF
one degree-of-freedom
2DOF
two degrees-of-freedom
ADRC
active disturbance rejection control
eADRC
error-based ADRC
ESO
extended state observer
EQ
equivalence
FB
feedback
FPGA
field programmable gate arrays
FIL
FPGA-in-the-loop
HDL
hardware description language
PI
proportional integral
PID
proportional integral derivative
PF
pre-filter
TF
transfer function

---

## Nomenclature—
CEQn
equivalence transfer function for n ∈{1, 2}
## CPI
FB
feedback transfer function of PI controller
## CPID
FB
feedback transfer function of PID controller
## CA
FB
feedback transfer function of eADRC
## CAn
FB
feedback transfer function for n ∈{1, 2}
## CPI
PF
prefilter transfer function of the PI controller
## CPID
PF
prefilter transfer function of the PID controller
## CAn
PF
prefilter transfer function for n ∈{1, 2}
## GPn
plant transfer function for n ∈{1, 2}
## GYD
transfer function of the disturbance-to-output channel
## GUN
transfer function of the noise-to-control channel
## GER
transfer function of the reference-to-error channel
## n
system relative order
## 1
Introduction
## 1.1
Background and motivation
## 2
There are multiple reasons why so many advanced control algorithms were not successfully transitioned
from academia to industry. This issue is very complex and part of a larger discussion on bridging the
theory vs. practice gap [1], hence it goes beyond the scope of this work. Here, however, we focus on
one specific reason, which is the simplicity and intuitiveness of PID’s structure. This reason is often
attributed as being one of the key factors behind PID dominance in the control area and, at the same
time, lack thereof is pointed as the disqualifying drawback of many advanced controllers.
It should be highlighted at this point that it is not our intention to shock the field control engineer,
make him/her leave the comfort zone of PID control, and force to absorb an entirely new control
concept that one has to learn how to implement and tune. In this work, instead of going against
the current and trying to overcome the popularity, availability, and overall prevalence of PID (which
might be a futile endeavor), we choose a different path. We take an advanced control solution and
devise a full methodology of transitioning that controller from its original form into a PI/PID-like form
while retaining its ’advanced’ capabilities. We want to address the drawbacks of standard PI/PID
controllers (e.g. limited robustness) by injecting new features while retaining (as close as possible) the
style of PID’s structure and parameters. The justification for this is simple. Through the process of
’hiding advanced controller in PID clothes’, we want to improve control performance while keeping the
functional simplicity of PI/PID, which will allow engineers to operate such advanced PID-like controller
in a simple, straightforward, and familiar manner.
In short, we want to put a powerful control
algorithm in the hands of floor engineers, and, by mimicking PI/PID, allow them to straightforwardly
set up, commission, and tune the controller, all in a short time and without knowledge of the advanced
control algorithm.
For the purpose of this work, we select active disturbance rejection control (ADRC) as the example
of an advanced controller, for which we will devise, design, and deploy a transition of its structure to
a PI/PID form. What is the justification behind selecting ADRC? It is a powerful, highly practical,
general-purpose control methodology [2, 3], which can be applied in a variety of ways, depending on
control requirements, availability of certain signals, computational capabilities of the target hardware,
etc. Since its inception, ADRC has attracted widespread attention among both scholars and practi-
tioners. Starting with its nonlinear version in [2], which was later streamlined by its simplified linear
form [4], it has found its way into many application domains. The core principle in ADRC is distur-
bance rejection, namely estimating and canceling total disturbance in real-time. As pointed out in [5],
ADRC is the strongest contender to overcome the theory vs. practice gap. The “paradigm shift” in

---

## 1.2
Scope, contribution, and structure
## • Establishing formal conditions of equivalence between the class of PI/PID controllers and the
eADRC scheme.
## • Derivation of a step-by-step procedure of transitioning from PI/PID to eADRC.
## 1Some earlier works on ADRC were mostly in Chinese.
## 3
ADRC, mentioned in [6], is enabled by a combination of modern control elements with pragmatic,
minimal plant modeling, and control loop tuning efforts. Furthermore, it can also be easily equipped
with control features that can be useful in engineering practice [7]. Finally, the ADRC methodology
is now well-grounded and explained in several languages: differential equation [8, 9], transfer function
[5, 10], and state space [11]. Recent surveys on ADRC [12] document its development over the years
and share successful applications.
The titular expression “From PID to ADRC” is a callback to the seminal work [2], where the
concept of ADRC was first introduced to a larger, English-speaking audience1. This expression nicely
captures the path of early ADRC development, which was mostly focused on trying to position ADRC
as an enticing alternative to PID through various analyses, case studies, and even head-to-head com-
parisons of field data (some overview papers can be found in [13, 12]). Please notice that the above-
mentioned phrase from [2] is, however, deliberately modified in this article and reads “From PID to
ADRC and back”. As it recently turned out, ADRC has more in common with standard controllers
than initially thought [14, 15].
It seems that the current development of ADRC has shifted and
now goes towards finding connections with classical controllers rather than distancing from them and
claiming superiority. Therefore, motivated by the need to support the adoption of ADRC in industrial
practice and to ensure backward compatibility of its future applications, we explore those connections
in this paper.

The conversion between PID and ADRC has been receiving a lot of attention from the control com-
munity lately. The significance of qualitative comparison of PID and ADRC, even though studied to
date mostly in the academic sphere, can soon have major practical implications. Even though PID is
still the practitioners’ usual first choice for designing feedback loops, ADRC continues to emerge as an
attractive competitor [16]. It is thus needed to deeply discuss this subject by looking at the currently
available body of work and emphasizing its missing points. There are of course several challenges when
analyzing the connection between PID and ADRC. One of them is the underlying control philosophy,
which is different for PID (passive, error-centric control) and ADRC (active, disturbance-centric con-
trol). Another is the tuning methodology, which has to be somehow reconciled as the number of design
parameters for the nominal versions of PID and ADRC is different.

Investigating the relation between ADRC and conventional controllers is not a new topic in the
scientific literature.
There exists a body of work that looked for parameter formulas connecting
ADRC with PI/PID [17, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23], tried to derive ADRC tuning rules from the PID
parameters [24, 25, 26, 27, 28], or attempted to interpret classic controllers as disturbance observer-
based structures [29, 30]. In this work, however, the scope is focused on a specific version of ADRC,
the so-called error-based ADRC (eADRC), which has not been previously considered in terms of
its equivalence with PI/PID schemes. Similarly to the most popular output-based ADRC [4], the
eADRC also utilizes a linear observer and a linear state feedback controller, however, its main input
signal is not the system output but the feedback error. The reasoning behind the specific selection of
eADRC is that it is easily understandable by control practitioners since its structure allows immediate
comparability with existing classical control solutions, including PI/PID, which are also error-based
(in most instances). More detailed information about the eADRC can be found in [31, 32, 33, 34] with
some successful applications shown in [35, 36, 37, 38].

Therefore, this paper focuses on formally expressing eADRC as a standard industrial PI/PID
controller. Such an equivalence and the procedures associated with it are verified whether they also
hold in experimental scenarios, here realized in a hardware setup with a field programmable gate
arrays (FPGA) platform. The contributions of this paper are thus as follows.

---

## 2
Prerequisites: considered control methods
## y(n) =
## n−1
X
## i=0
ai · y(i) + b · u(t) + d(t),
(1)
## 2.1
PI/PID controllers
## 2.1.1
2DOF PID
## The 2DOF PID controller for the considered plant model (1) can be formulated as [39, 40]:
## uPID(t) = KP · [β · r(t) −y(t)]
## + KI
## Z t
## 0
[r(τ) −y(τ)] dτ
## + KD
## 
−dy(t)
## dt
## 
,
(2)
## 4
• Derivation of a step-by-step procedure of transitioning from one degree-of-freedom (1DOF) to
two degrees-of-freedom (2DOF) eADRC while retaining a standard 2DOF PI/PID structure.

• Reduction of the gap between control system designers and the capabilities of the FPGA hard-
ware by introducing a relatively simple methodology for control algorithm implementation,
prototyping, and validation.

The newly unraveled connection between standard PI/PID controllers and the two formal procedures
facilitates expressing eADRC schemes as standard industrial 1DOF and 2DOF controllers. This allows
the designed controller to have the desired characteristic of ADRC (i.e. strong robustness against
internal and external uncertainties) while being expressed in a form that is familiar to industrial
practitioners, where PI/PID structures are still dominant. The results of the paper ensure backward
compatibility of future ADRC-based solutions and foster the adoption of active disturbance rejection-
based methods in industrial practice as a viable alternative to standard controllers. To the best of
our knowledge, such results were not presented in the literature before and contribute to the current
body of knowledge.

Before we introduce the control techniques considered in this work, let us first define the class of
systems that these techniques have to govern. Here we considered the problem of controlling n-th
order single-input single-output systems that can be expressed as:

where u(t) is the control signal, y(t) is the system output, b is the system uncertain input gain, d(t) is
the external disturbance, and ai, for i = 0, 1, . . . , n −1, are the system uncertain internal parameters.
Here we primarily focus on first- and second-order systems, i.e. n ∈{1, 2}, as they are most commonly
considered in engineering practice.
The considered control objective here is to manipulate the control signal u(t) in a way that the
system output y(t) tracks a reference signal r(t) despite the presence of unmodeled external disturbance
d(t) and uncertainties related to the system parameters (ai and b).

Remark 1. We have started with the expression in continuous time domain but throughout the article
s-domain will also be used as it offers controller representation in a compact and easy to implement
way. It also aids the frequency domain analysis (to be shown in Section 4). We assume, without loss
of generality, that the initial values that appear when making Laplace transformation are equal to zero.

The design of control structures for (1), based on PI/PID controllers and eADRC controller, will
be recalled in the next subsections Section 2.1 and Section 2.2, respectively. One will notice that
we consider both 1DOF and 2DOF structures. It should be thus reminded that a degree-of-freedom
of a control system is defined as the number of closed-loop transfer functions that can be adjusted
independently [39]. The design of control systems is a multi-objective problem, hence a 2DOF control
system, although more complex, naturally has advantages over a 1DOF control system [40].

---

## uPID(s) = KP · [β · r(s) · FR(s) −y(s) · FY(s)]
## + KI
## s · [r(s) · FR(s) −y(s) · FY(s)]
## + s · KD · [−y(s) · FY(s)] .
(3)
## The introduced low-pass filters are commonly of first- or second-order, and their coefficients can be
considered as additional tuning parameters.
## The 2DOF PID transfer function representation from (2) can also be expressed in an alternative,
more compact way:
## with:
## CPID
FB (s) = KD · s2 + KP · s + KI
## s
· FY(s),
(5)
## 2.1.2
1DOF PID
## uPID(s) = CPID
FB (s) ·
## 2.1.3
2DOF and 1DOF PI
## 5
with design parameters KP, KI, KD, and β.
In industrial applications, it is often beneficial to introduce low-pass filters in the reference and
output channels to improve system’s step response and reduce its noise sensitivity. Hence, the Laplace
transform of (2), including reference signal filtered by FR(s) and system output filtered by FY(s), can
take the form2:

Remark 2. A common engineering practice is only to filter the derivative term in the above equation.
In this paper, however, we will use the more general PID form (3). The transition between the two
filtered PID structures can easily be done utilizing the equivalence shown in [41].

uPID(s) = CPID
FB (s) ·

r(s) · CPID
PF (s) −y(s)

,
(4)

CPID
PF (s) =
KP · β · s + KI
KD · s2 + KP · s + KI
· FR(s)
FY(s).
(6)

representing the feedback (FB) and pre-filter (PF) transfer functions, respectively.
The 2DOF PID structure enables separate tuning of disturbance rejection and reference tracking.
When the controller is tasked to give a desired attenuation of disturbances, the disturbance rejection
performance can be tuned using parameters KP, KI, KD, and filter FY(s). Parameters β and filter
FR(s) can be tuned to give an appropriate reference response.

The 1DOF PID structure, which is the most commonly seen variant of the PID controller, can be
obtained from (4) by simply substituting CPID
PF (s) = 1, which yields:

e(s)
z
}|
{
[r(s) −y(s)],
(7)

where e(s) is the tracking error in s-domain.
In the case of 1DOF PID controller, contrarily to the commentary under (6), the reference tracking
and disturbance rejection performances cannot be tuned separately using parameters KP, KD, KI,
and FY(s).

Typically, in the case of first-order systems (i.e. n = 1), 2DOF PI control structure is utilized, which
can be considered as a special case of the 2DOF PID controller but with KD = 0 and FY(s) = 1,
which gives:

uPI(s) = CPI
FB(s) ·

r(s) · CPI
PF(s) −y(s)

,
(8)

2Throughout the paper, to simplify the analysis and to focus on the behavior of the system in the steady-
state, we assume that the initial values that appear when making Laplace transformation are equal to zero.

---

## with its pre-filter and feedback transfer functions:
## CPI
FB(s) = KP · s + KI
## s
,
(9)
## CPI
PF(s) = KP · β · s + KI
## KP · s + KI
· FR(s).
(10)
## The 1DOF variant of the 2DOF PI controller can be directly obtained from (8) assuming GPI
PF(s) =
1, which gives:
## uPI(s) = CPI
FB(s) ·
## 2.2
Error-based ADRC (eADRC)
## e(n) = fe(t) + b0 · u(t),
(12)
## where:
## fe(t) = r(n) −
## n−1
X
## i=0
ai · r(i) +
## n−1
X
## i=0
ai · e(i) + ∆b · u(t) + d(t),
## u(t) = 1
## where:
## for A =
## 0n×1
In×n
## 0
01×n
## !
## , b =
## 
## 


## 0(n−1)×1
## b0
0
## 
## 

, c =
## 1
## 01×n
## !
## ,
## ˆx(s) = (s · I −ACL)−1 · l · e(s),
(15)
## 6
e(s)
z
}|
{
[r(s) −y(s)] .
(11)

The error-based ADRC (eADRC) is briefly recalled here with its key design points. For a more detailed
derivation, the reader is referred to [33].
By incorporating the system dynamics (1) into the definition of the tracking error e(t) ≜r(t)−y(t),
one can express the controlled system using its feedback error dynamics:

is the system’s resultant generalized (total) disturbance and ∆b represents the uncertainty of the input
gain.
In the eADRC methodology, the control law for the above system is usually defined as:

b0
·
h
kT
1

· ˆxe
i
,
(13)

kT =

k1
· · ·
kn

,

ˆxe =

ˆxe1(t)
· · ·
ˆxen(t)
ˆxe(n+1)(t)
T

=

ˆe(t)
· · ·
ˆe(n−1)
ˆfe(t)
T
,

are the controller gains vector (to be tuned) and state estimation vector, respectively. The latter term
can be obtained using an extended state observer (ESO):

˙ˆxe = A · ˆxe(t) −b · u(t) + l ·

e(t) −cT · ˆxe(t)

,
(14)

and l =

l1
· · ·
ln+1
T
is the observer gains vector (to be tuned).
To represent the above control observer-based structure in a transfer function form, the Laplace
transform of (13) is substituted into (14), which gives:

---

## where ACL = A −l · cT + 1
## u(s) = 1
## which can be rewritten as 1DOF control structure:
## u(s) = CA
FB(s) · e(s).
(17)
## The feedback transfer function CA
FB is of a general form :
## CA
FB(s) = 1
## det (s · I −ACL) · l.
(18)
## For first- (n = 1) and second-order (n = 2) plant models it respectively takes the forms:
## CA1
FB(s) = 1
## CA2
FB(s) = 1
## 3
Main result: establishing conditions of equivalence
## 3.1
Transition from PI/PID to eADRC structure
## 7
b0 · b ·

kT
1

.
By substituting (15) in the Laplace transform of (14), and eliminating ˆe(s), one arrives at:

b0
·

kT
1

(s · I −ACL)−1 · l · e(s),
(16)

b0
·

kT
1
 adj (s · I −ACL)

b0
· (k1l1 + l2) · s + k1l2
s2 + (k1 + l2) · s
,
(19)

b0
· (k1l1 + k2l2 + l3) · s2 + (k1l2 + k2l3) · s + k1l3
s3 + (k2 + l1) · s2 + (l2 + k1 + l1k2) · s
.
(20)

From the above derivations, one can notice that this eADRC has 1DOF control structure that
only contains the feedback transfer function (similarly to 1DOF PI and 1DOF PID in (11) and (7),
respectively). In [31], we have formally shown that the eADRC does not have an imposed pre-filter
transfer function in the reference channel (as opposed to the classic output-based ADRC [4]). This
has certain benefits, for example, it allows the control designer to freely choose if one wants to use a
pre-filter and, if yes, what kind of pre-filter.

In this section, we uncover a new connection between standard PI/PID controllers and eADRC. By
establishing formal conditions of equivalence between the two control schemes, we devise a step-by-
step procedure of transitioning from PI/PID to error-based ADRC (Section 3.1). We also show how
to go from 1DOF to 2DOF ADRC while retaining a standard 2DOF PI/PID structure (Section 3.2).
Both procedures facilitate expressing error-based ADRC schemes as standard industrial 1DOF and
2DOF controllers. The results of this section are collectively visualized in Figure 1.

In this section, we want to find out if the eADRC transfer functions for first-order (n = 1) and second-
order (n = 2) systems can be represented as PI and PID transfer functions, respectively, multiplied
by an equivalence transfer function.
We start with first-order case (n = 1) and write:

CA1
FB(s) = CPI
FB(s) · CEQ1(s),
(21)

where CEQ1(s) is the equivalence transfer function (to be found). After a visual comparison of PI and
eADRC structures in Section 2, one can deduce that the equivalence transfer function in this case has
to be:

CEQ1(s) =
1
1
l2+k1 · s + 1,
(22)

---

## with the PI controller parameters set as:
## In similar manner, we write down the case of second-order plant (n = 2):
## and deduce that the equivalence transfer function CEQ2(s) in this case has to take the form:
## with PID controller gains set as:
## KP =
k1l1 + k2l3
b0(k2l1 + l2 + k1),
## KD =
k1l1 + k2l2 + l3
b0(k2l1 + l2 + k1).
## 3.2
Transition from standard 1DOF eADRC controller to strict
2DOF eADRC controller
## CA1
FB(s) = KPs + KI
## s
· FY1(s),
(27)
## 3The term strict 2DOF refers to a controller structure consisting of two closed-loop transfer functions that
can be adjusted independently.
## 8
KP =
k1l1 + l2
b0(l2 + k1),
KI =
k1l2
b0(l2 + k1).
(23)

CA2
FB(s) = CPID
FB (s) · CEQ2(s),
(24)

CEQ2(s) =
1
1
(k2l1+l2+k1) · s2 +
k2+l1
(k2l1+l2+k1) · s + 1
·
1
FY(s),
(25)

KI =
k1l3
b0(k2l1 + l2 + k1),
(26)

The above procedures enable a relatively simple transition from existing PI/PID controller to
eADRC control structure by adding the appropriate equivalence transfer function CEQ(s) in serial
with existing PI/PID controller.

There are two conclusions one can draw when comparing the classic, output-based ADRC (as defined
in [4]) with the error-based ADRC (as defined in [31]):

• Output-based ADRC, as seen in [4], is not a strict 2DOF3 control structure, which means that
although one can identify two transfer functions in the control system scheme, these transfer
functions cannot be independently tuned (i.e. tuning of tracking performance and disturbance
rejection is intertwined), which is not in line with the definition of the degree-of-freedom given
in [39].

• Error-based ADRC is a 1DOF control structure as only one transfer function (related to feed-
back) can be identified in the control system scheme.
There is no transfer function in the
reference channel.

Therefore, in this section, we want derive a procedure that will show how to transition from
standard 1DOF eADRC controller to a 2DOF eADRC controller (with a strict 2DOF structure).
In other words, the idea is to propose 2DOF eADRC structure as a more general controller than
1DOF eADRC, which allows to obtain the advantages of a 2DOF structure related to the ability to
independently tune of the set-point response and disturbance rejection performance.

Analyzing the structure of eADRC feedback transfer function for first-order plant (19), one can
notice that it can be alternatively represented as a following PI controller feedback transfer function
CPI
FB(s) with its output additionally filtered with a first-order low-pass filter FY1(s):

---

## CA1
PF(s) = KPβs + KI
## CA2
FB(s) = KDs2 + KPs + KI
## s
· FY2(s),
(29)
## where KP, KI, KD are tuned as in (26) and FY2(s) is a second-order low-pass filter, defined as:
## Therefore, based on the structure of 2DOF PID pre-filter (6), the eADRC pre-filter transfer function
can be derived as:
## 
## ( )
y s
## ( )
d s
## ( )
u s
## 2DOF eADRC 
2DOF PI/PID
## 1DOF PI/PID
## 1DOF eADRC
## 9
where KP, KI are tuned as in (23) and the filter has the form FY1(s) ≡CEQ1(s). Next, based on
the equivalence between eADRC and 2DOF PI structures (already established in Section 3.1), the
appropriate eADRC pre-filter transfer function can be obtained for the first-order plant model as:

KPs + KI
· FR(s)
FY1(s) = CPI
PF(s) · C−1
EQ1(s).
(28)

The two derived transfer functions, related to the pre-filter (28) and the feedback (27), constitute the
desired 2DOF eADRC structure for first-order systems.
In similar manner, eADRC feedback transfer function for the second-order plant model can be
expressed as:

FY2(s) =
1
1
k2l1+l2+k1 · s2 +
k2+l1
k2l1+l2+k1 · s + 1
.
(30)

CA2
PF(s) =
KPβs + KI
KDs2 + KPs + KI
· FR(s)
FY2(s)

= CPID
PF (s) · C−1
EQ2(s).
(31)

This, together with (29) constitute the desired 2DOF eADRC structure for second-order systems.
Finally, after the introduced rearrangements, it should be noticed that now adjusting filter FR(s)
and β in (28) and (31) enable reference response tuning in the proposed 2DOF eADRC controller
without affecting its disturbance rejection performance.
The equivalences between PI/PID and eADRC controllers, obtained in Section 3.1, enable the
transition of 1DOF eADRC to 2DOF eADRC structure based on the 2DOF PI/PID structure. The
obtained decoupling of tuning of tracking and disturbance rejection is a highly desirable property in
practice, as recently pointed out in [42, 43]. The graphical representation of the proposed transitions
between PI/PID and eADRC controllers in the 1DOF and 2DOF cases are shown in Figure 1.

P1/2( )
G
s
( )
r s

)
(
A1/2
PF
s
C

)
(
EQ1/2 s
C
)
(
1
EQ1/2 s
C 

)
(
A1/2
FB
s
C

)
(
PI/PID
FB
s
C
)
(
PI/PID
PF
s
C

Figure 1: Implementation scheme of PI/PID and eADRC controllers in 1DOF and 2DOF forms.
The notation ’1/2’ corresponds to plant relative order n = {1, 2}. A table containing specific
equations for all the considered control schemes can be found in Table 3 in Appendix A1.

---

## 4
Performance analyses in time and frequency domains
## 4.1
Testing methodology
## For the purpose of the investigation, two generic plant models are introduced, namely a first-order
system model (n = 1) with time-delay:4
## and a normalized second-order system model (n = 2):
## (λ + ωCL)n = λn + knλn−1 + . . . + k2λ + k1,
(34)
## and in the same manner, observer gains can be obtained placing observer poles at location λ =
−kESO · ωCL:
## (λ + kESO · ωCL)n+1 = λn+1 + l1λn + . . . + lnλ + ln+1,
(35)
## Ms = max
s>0
## 1
1 + GFB(s)GP(s)
## .
(36)
## 10
In this section, a comparison between considered PI/PID and eADRC structures in both 1DOF and
2DOF cases is performed by analyzing system steady-state and transient performance. The comparison
is focused on data-driven analysis of the controllers’ performance in time and frequency domains,
without using equivalent functions. Detailed mathematical analyses of the considered control schemes
are omitted here as they have already been covered in the literature, for example in [31, 33].

GP1(s) =
1
s + 1e−0.2s,
(32)

GP2(s) =
1
s2 + 2s + 1.
(33)

In order to simplify the tuning of eADRC, the so-called ‘bandwidth parameterization’ is applied.
This approach from [4] is the most commonly utilized tuning technique for ADRC schemes that has
been successfully applied to numerous control scenarios to date [10, 35, 44]. It enables relatively simple
tuning of both controller and observer gains. For the controller, its gains can be obtained by placing
closed-loop controller poles at one common location λ = −ωCL:

where ωCL is the desired closed-loop system bandwidth and kESO represents the relative factor between
the observer and the control loop bandwidths, both being user-defined design parameters.
To enable a fair comparison between PI/PID and eADRC control schemes, all the considered
controller structures are tuned here to have the same robustness index Ms [45]:

Therefore, for the derived control structures for first-order plant model (32), Ms = 1.55 is selected by
choosing KP = 1 and KI = 2.5 in case of PI, and in case of eADRC ωCL = 2.7rad/s, KESO = 15, and,
assuming complete knowledge of the plant input gain, b0 = 1. For the controllers for second-order
plant model (33), Ms = 1.45 is adopted, and it is achieved by choosing KP = 30, KI = 27, KD = 5,
FY(s) =
1
Tfs+1 with Tf = 0.05s (filter coefficient) in case of PID, and in case of eADRC ωCL = 4rad/s,
kESO = 7, and, assuming complete knowledge of the plant input gain, also b0 = 1.
It should be noted that the corresponding 1DOF and 2DOF structures have identical robustness
indices Ms, which means that they have the same robustness characteristics, regardless of pre-filter
GPF(s), where CPF(s) is either CPI/PID
PF
(s) or CAn
PF(s), depending on the considered plant order (n ∈
{1, 2}) and the considered controller type (PI/PID or eADRC). The additional tuning parameters
in the 2DOF structures (included in GPF(s)) are set to be the same for both PI/PID and eADRC
controllers. The low-pass reference filter is fixed as FR(s) =
1
0.001s+1, and in order to show the influence
of the parameter β, its two different values are analyzed (for the first-order plant: β = {0.7; 0.3} and
for the second-order plant: β = {0.75; 0.65}).

4Those two specific plant models were also used [31], where the equivalence between eADRC and conventional
output-based ADRC was discussed. By using the same examples, one can build on those earlier results, perform
comparisons more easily, and expand the topic of the equivalence of ADRC to other control forms.

---

## 4.2
Steady-state performance analysis
## and for 2DOF structure as:
## 11
The steady-state performance analyses of disturbance rejection, noise sensitivity, and reference track-
ing are conducted in frequency domain, based on the previously defined transfer function representa-
tions of the considered PI/PID and eADRC structures shown in Figure 1.
The disturbance rejection performance is analyzed based on frequency response of a following
transfer function from disturbance d(s) to output y(s):

GYD(s) =
GPn(s)
1 + CFB(s) · GPn(s),
(37)

where the specific form of GPn(s) depends on the considered plant order (n ∈{1, 2}), and CFB(s) is
either CPI/PID
FB
(s) or CAn
FB(s), depending on the considered plant order (n ∈{1, 2}) and the considered
controller type (PI/PID or eADRC). The obtained disturbance rejection results are shown in Figure 2,
jointly for first- and second-order plant.
The system noise sensitivity characteristics are obtained based on frequency response of a following
transfer function between measurement noise n(s) (in the output signal y(s)) and control signal u(s):

GUN(s) =
−CFB(s)
1 + CFB(s) · GPn(s),
(38)

where the specific form of GPn(s) depends on the considered plant order (n ∈{1, 2}), and CFB(s) is
either CPI/PID
FB
(s) or CAn
FB(s), depending on the considered plant order (n ∈{1, 2}) and the considered
controller type (PI/PID or eADRC). The obtained noise sensitivity results are depicted in Figure 3,
collectively for first- and second-order plant.
One can notice that (37) and (38) do not contain pre-filter transfer function CPF(s), which means
that appropriate 1DOF and 2DOF controllers have the same disturbance rejection capabilities and
noise sensitivity in steady-state, which is additionally confirmed by Figure 2 and Figure 3. On the other
hand, it should be also noted that eADRC controllers enable better disturbance rejection performances
than PI/PID controllers (especially in the case of second-order plant) and significantly lower level of
noise sensitivity in high frequency range, which is often of interest in the analysis of influence of the
measurement noise on system performance.
In order to compare the performances of steady-state reference tracking, following transfer func-
tions from reference signal r(s) to tracking error e(s) are derived, for 1DOF structure as:

GER(s) = 1 −
CFB(s) · GPn(s)
1 + CFB(s) · GPn(s),
(39)

GER(s) = 1 −CPF(s) ·
CFB(s) · GPn(s)
1 + CFB(s) · GPn(s),
(40)

where the specific form of GPn(s) depends on the considered plant order (n ∈{1, 2}); CFB(s) is
either CPI/PID
FB
(s) or CAn
FB(s), depending on the considered plant order (n ∈{1, 2}) and the considered
controller type (PI/PID or eADRC); and CPF(s) is either CPI/PID
PF
(s) or CAn
PF(s), depending on the
considered plant order (n ∈{1, 2}) and the considered controller type (PI/PID or eADRC).
The frequency responses of GER(s) for the considered controllers are gathered in Figure 4 jointly
for first- and second-order plant. It can be observer that 1DOF structures provide better steady-state
reference tracking performances than the corresponding 2DOF structures, and that decreasing param-
eter β in 2DOF structure leads to higher reference tracking error in steady-state. Also, comparing
eADRC and PI/PID schemes, it is obvious that eADRC achieves better performance in both 1DOF
and 2DOF cases.

---

## 10-2
10-1
100
## Frequency (rad/s)
## -50
## -45
## -40
## -35
## -30
## -25
## -20
## -15
## -10
## -5
## Magnitude (dB)
## 1DOF PI; 2DOF PI ( =0.7); 2DOF PI ( =0.3)
1DOF eADRC; 2DOF eADRC ( =0.7); 2DOF eADRC ( =0.3)
## -23.5
## -23
## -22.5
## Frequency (rad/s)
## -80
## -70
## -60
## -50
## -40
## -30
## Magnitude (dB)
## 1DOF PID; 2DOF PID ( =0.75); 2DOF PID ( =0.65)
1DOF eADRC; 2DOF eADRC ( =0.75); 2DOF eADRC ( =0.65)
## Figure 2: Comparative analyses of steady-state disturbance rejection performances for plant
model GP1(s) (a) and GP2(s) (b).
## 100
102
104
## Frequency (rad/s)
## -50
## -40
## -30
## -20
## -10
## 0
## Magnitude (dB)
## 1DOF PI; 2DOF PI ( =0.7); 2DOF PI ( =0.3)
1DOF eADRC; 2DOF eADRC ( =0.7); 2DOF eADRC ( =0.3)
## Frequency (rad/s)
## -20
## -10
## 0
## 10
## 20
## 30
## 40
## 50
## 60
## Magnitude (dB)
## 1DOF PID; 2DOF PID ( =0.75); 2DOF PID ( =0.65)
1DOF eADRC; 2DOF eADRC ( =0.75); 2DOF eADRC ( =0.65)
## Figure 3: Comparative analyses of steady-state measurement noise sensitivity for plant model
GP1(s) (a) and GP2(s) (b).
## 12
0.17
0.18
0.19
-24

(a) Results for plant model GP1(s). Note: corre-
sponding 1DOF and 2DOF structures have the
same transfer function GYD(s), hence the fre-
quency responses characteristics overlap.

10-2
10-1
100
101

(b) Results for plant model GP2(s).
Note: cor-
responding 1DOF and 2DOF structures have the
same transfer function GYD(s), hence the fre-
quency responses characteristics overlap.

(a) Results for plant model GP1(s) Note: corre-
sponding 1DOF and 2DOF structures have the
same transfer function GUN(s), hence the fre-
quency responses characteristics overlap.

100
102
104
106

(b) Results for plant model GP2(s) Note: corre-
sponding 1DOF and 2DOF structures have the
same transfer function GUN(s), hence the fre-
quency responses characteristics overlap.

---

## Frequency(rad/s)
## -50
## -45
## -40
## -35
## -30
## -25
## -20
## -15
## -10
## -5
## 0
## 5
## Magnitude(dB)
## 0.1
0.12 0.14
## -28
## -26
## -24
## -22
## -20
## (a) Results for plant model GP1(s)
## Frequency(rad/s)
## -80
## -70
## -60
## -50
## -40
## -30
## -20
## -10
## 0
## 10
## Magnitude(dB)
## (b) Results for plant model GP2(s)
## Figure 4: Comparative analyses of steady-state reference tracking performances for plant model
GP1(s) (a) and GP2(s) (b).
## 4.3
Transient performance analysis
## 5
FPGA-in-the-loop simulations
## 5.1
Lab setup and testing methodology
## 13
10-2
10-1
100
101

1DOF PI
1DOF eADRC
2DOF PI ( =0.7)
2DOF eADRC ( =0.7)
2DOF PI ( =0.3)
2DOF eADRC ( =0.3)

10-2
10-1
100
101
102

1DOF PID
1DOF eADRC
2DOF PID ( =0.75)
2DOF eADRC ( =0.75)
2DOF PID ( =0.65)
2DOF eADRC ( =0.65)

The transient performances of the considered control structures are analyzed in time-domain using
numerical simulations with already established plant models (32) and (33). Simulations are conducted
with a step reference signal filtered by a low-pass filter Gf(s) =
1
(0.01s+1)2 . To test the robustness of the
considered control algorithms against external disturbance, an unmodeled step disturbance is added
from t ≥10s. To test their noise sensitivity, white noise, with power Pn = 1×10−7 and sampling time
Tn = 0.001s, is added to the system output from t ≥15s.
The obtained systems responses and generated corresponding control signals are presented in Fig-
ure 5 for the first-order plant, and in Figure 6 for the second-order plant. From these figures, it can be
noticed that in all the simulated scenarios, eADRC controllers achieved better reference tracking than
PI/PID controllers, and that 2DOF structures provide responses with lower overshoots and values of
the control signal than 1DOF structures. It can be also seen that the system response and the associ-
ated control signal peak can be shaped by adjusting parameter β, where its lower value means lower
overshoot and lower control signal peak. Also, as expected, it is evident that shaping the reference
response does not affect the disturbance rejection performance and noise sensitivity, which confirms
the previously made conclusion resulting from (37) and (38).
Therefore, it can be concluded that the proposed 2DOF eADRC controller, derived based on 2DOF
PI/PID controller, in comparison with the standard 1DOF eADRC controller, provides the additional
ability to adjust the transient reference response, while retaining the same noise sensitivity level as
well as disturbance rejection performance in both steady-state and transient stages.

The goal of this section is to verify whether the discovered equivalence and procedures hold under
experimental test. Due to, FPGA-in-the-loop (FIL) validation tests of the considered control algo-
rithms are performed. FPGA-based implementations can be consider as an alternative to commonly

---

## 0.2
## 0.4
## 0.6
## 0.8
## 1
## 1.2
## 1
## 1.2
## 10
12
14
## 1
## 1.1
## 1.2
## 0.2
## 0.4
## 0.6
## 0.8
## 1
## 1.2
## 1.4
## 1.6
## 1.8
## 1
## 1.5
## 0.48
## 0.5
0.52
## Disturbance
rejection
## Tracking
performnace
## Measurment noise
sensitivity
## 0.2
## 0.4
## 0.6
## 0.8
## 1
## 1.2
## 0.8
## 1
## 1.2
## -10
## 0
## 10
## 20
## 30
## 40
## 50
## -10
## 0
## 10
## 20
## 30
## 40
Disturbance rejection
## Tracking performance
## Measurment noise sensitivity
## 14
0
5
10
15
20
0

1DOF PI
1DOF eADRC
2DOF PI ( =0.7)
2DOF eADRC ( =0.7)
2DOF PI ( =0.3)
2DOF eADRC ( =0.3)

1
2
3
0.8

0
5
10
15
20
0

0
1
2
0.5

15
16
17
18

Figure 5: Comparative analyses of transient performances for plant model GP1(s): system
outputs (left) and control signals (right). Note: during the disturbance rejection test (10s ≤t <
20s) and measurement noise sensitivity test (15s ≤t ≤20s), the signal plots of the 1DOF and
2DOF structures (in both eADRC and PI cases) remain the same, hence are indistinguishable
in the plots.

0
5
10
15
20
0

1DOF PID
1DOF eADRC
2DOF PID ( =0.75)
2DOF eADRC ( =0.75)
2DOF PID ( =0.65)
2DOF eADRC ( =0.65)

0
1
2
0.6

0
5
10
15
20
-20

0
0.5
1
1.5

Figure 6: Comparative analyses of transient performances for plant model GP2(s): system
outputs (left) and control signals (right). Note: during the disturbance rejection test (10s ≤t <
20s) and measurement noise sensitivity test (15s ≤t ≤20s), the signal plots of the 1DOF and
2DOF structures (in both eADRC and PI cases) remain the same, hence are indistinguishable
in the plots.

---

## Plant model
## design
## Discrete controller design
## (in fixed-point format)
## MATLAB/Simulink
## FPGA 
programming
## Controller  FIL block
## FIL simulation signal
## exchanging
## Controller  HDL code genaration
## Feedback
## Reference
## Data Scope
## Disturbance
## FPGA hardware
## Figure 7: Methodology of the performed FPGA-in-the-loop simulation tests.
## To comparatively analyze performances of the considered control methods, two following scenarios
are prepared:
## 15
used microprocessor-based implementations for certain applications, especially when fast signal pro-
cessing or control of more parallel processes is required [10, 46]. The reasons for the less popular use
of FPGA hardware are often the lack of experience of control designers and engineers in VHDL pro-
gramming and FPGA implementation. To reduce the gap between control system designers and the
capabilities of the FPGA hardware, a relatively simple FIL test methodology, presented in Figure 7,
for control algorithm implementation, prototyping, and validation, based on low cost FPGA chip and
MATLAB/Simulink software, is proposed. The controller hardware description language (HDL) code
is generated using MATLAB/Simulink HDL Code Generation toolbox, based on the controller’s dis-
crete form realized in a fixed-point representation format of the controller’s signals and coefficients.
Then, following MATLAB/Simulink FIL wizard, the controller FIL block is formed by choosing the
desired FPGA target platform; in our case, a low-cost Basys 3 board with Xilinx Artix 7 FPGA chip
XC7A35T is used. The generated controller FIL block is included in the control loop of the plant
model realized in MATLAB/Simulink. By starting the simulation, the controller is implemented in
the FPGA chip, and the simulation is executed, such that the controller FIL block calculations are
performed on the real FPGA hardware. The FIL simulation signal exchanging process is assured by
a micro-USB cable that connects computer USB port and a JTAG port on the FPGA board.

• ’Scenario I’ — In this test, the comparative performance analysis of output voltage reference
tracking is performed using a highly uncertain model of a DC-DC buck power converter, con-
trolled by 1DOF PID controller (7) (with first-order filter FY(s) =
1
Tf·s+1), 1DOF eADRC
controller (20), and 1DOF eADRC controller (obtained from 1DOF PID by adding equivalence
transfer function (25)). To further complicate the control task and to check the robustness of
the applied control, the governed system is additionally subjected to an unmodeled, nonlinear
load disturbance (depicted in Figure 8a). Details of this scenario are described in Section 5.2.

• ’Scenario II’ — In this test, the comparative performance analysis of motor shaft angular speed
reference tracking is performed using a highly uncertain model of DC motor, controlled by
1DOF and 2DOF eADRC controllers. To further complicate the control task and to check the
robustness of the applied control, the governed system is additionally subjected to an unmodeled,
nonlinear load disturbance (depicted in Figure 8b). Details of this scenario are described in
Section 5.3.

---

## 0.1
## 0.2
## 0.3
## 0.4
## (a) External disturbance in ’Scenario I’
## 5
## 10
## (b) External disturbance in ’Scenario II’
## 5.2
FIL simulation of ’Scenario I’
## The used DC-DC buck power converter model is expressed as a following second-order system [44]:
## C · L · [u1(t) + w1(t)] ,
(41)
## CA2
FB(z) = Ts
## respectively, where Ts is the sampling time and the coefficients of (43) and (44) are given in Ap-
pendix A2.
## 16
0
2
4
6
8
10
0

0
2
4
6
8
10
0

Figure 8: User-defined applied external disturbance. To make the test case realistic, the infor-
mation about the acting disturbance is not utilized anywhere in the control design, as to mimic
a real-world scenario where the external disturbance would be unknown.

¨y1 = −
1
C · R · ˙y1 −
1
C · L · y1(t) + Vin

where y1(t) represents the system output voltage, u1(t) is the control signal, R = 50Ωis the load
resistance, C = 0.001F is the filter capacitance, L = 0.01H is the filter inductance, Vin = 20V is
the input DC voltage source, and w1(t) represents the user-defined external perturbation (shown in
Figure 8a).
Applying the Euler approximation and substituting s = (z −1)/Ts in (5), (20) and (25), the
discrete forms of the considered 1DOF PID controller, 1DOF eADRC controller, and the equivalence
transfer functions become:

CPID
FB (z) = KDz2 + (KPTs −2KD)z + KD −KPTs + KPT 2
s
Tfz2 + (Ts −2Tf)z + Tf −Ts
,
(42)

b0
·
M2z2 + M1z + M0
(z2 + N1z + N0)(z −1),
(43)

CEQ2(z) =
L1z + L0
P2z2 + P1z + P0
,
(44)

Remark 3. Although not the case here for the considered FPGA board, but one may want to consider
checking other, more efficient discrete implementations of eADRC for applications with low sampling
frequencies [47, 48, 49].

The eADRC controller is tuned by choosing ωCL = 45rad/s, kESO = 45, and, assuming complete
knowledge of the plant gain, b0 = Vin/CL.
The PID controller gains are set based on eADRC
parameters using (26), and two different values of the filter parameter Tf = {0.005, 0.0003}, are
analyzed. The considered discrete controllers are realized in high precision 64-bit fixed-point format,
with the sampling time Ts = 0.0001s. The control objective is to track a reference signal being a
square signal filtered by Gf1(s) =
1
(0.1s+1)2 despite the presence of unmodeled external perturbation (in
Figure 8a) and white measurement noise corrupting the system output (with noise power Pn = 1×10−7

and sampling time Tn = Ts). The obtained FIL simulation results are presented in Figure 9.
It can be seen that the PID controller with added equivalence transfer function CEQ2, provides
practically the same reference tracking and disturbance rejection performances as the eADRC con-
troller. A slight difference, visible in the control signals, is a consequence of their fixed-point FPGA

---

## 10
## 20
## -6
-4
-2
## 0
2
## 2
2.02
2.04
## -6
## -4
## -2
## -0.8
## -0.6
## -0.4
## 0.5
## 1
## 0.4
## 0.6
## Disturbance rejection
## Figure 9: ’Scenario I’: results of FPGA-in-the-loop simulation with systems outputs (top);
tracking errors (middle); control signals (bottom).
## Table 1: ’Scenario I’ — resource occupancy of FPGA chip XC7A35T for the considered con-
trollers.
## 17
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
0

1DOF eADRC
1DOF PID+ CEQ2
1DOF PID ( Tf=0.005)
1DOF PID ( Tf=0.0003)

0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

6
6.05
6.1
-1

0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
0

5
5.5
6
0.2

implementations, because ’1DOF PID+CEQ2’ structure is realized as a serial connection of (42) and
(44), while 1DOF eADRC is realized solely based on (43). Additionally, it is evident that the eADRC-
based controllers enable better disturbance rejection performances than PID controller with Tf = 0.005.
An improvement in the PID disturbance rejection performance is achieved by decreasing the filter co-
efficient (Tf = 0.0003), but in that case, a significant increase of the measurement noise sensitivity
becomes evident by observing the control signals in Figure 9.
A comparison in consumption of most significant FPGA chip resources for the considered con-
trollers, namely the look up table (LUT), digital signal processing (DSP) block, and the flip-flop (FF)
block is presented in Table 1. As expected, it can be seen that the 1DOF PID controller requests the
least FPGA resource, and that structure ’1DOF PID+CEQ2’ occupied more FPGA resources com-
pared to compact 1DOF eADRC controller, due to its realization form as a serial connection of two
discrete transfer functions (42) and (44), which requires more multiplication and addition operations
than 1DOF eADRC discrete transfer function (43). However, it should be noted that in this case, a
relatively low-cost FPGA chip is used, and compared with industrial FPGA chips, has significantly less
resource. Hence, increasing consumption of resources, although interesting from academic perspective,
is often not considered a major problem in practical industrial applications.

FPGA resource
1DOF PID
1DOF eADRC
1DOF PID+CEQ2
Available

LUTs
750 (3.61%)
1005 (4.83%)
2331 (11.21%)
20800 (100%)

FF blocks
144 (0.35%)
216 (0.52%)
288 (0.69%)
41600 (100%)

DSP blocks
43 (47.78%)
52 (57.78%)
72 (80%)
90 (100%)

---

## 5.3
FIL simulation of ’Scenario II’
## The used DC motor model is expressed as a following second-order system [46]:
## ¨y2 = −LaFe + RaJe
## + kem
## LaJe
· [u2(t) + w2(t)] ,
(45)
## CA2
PF(z) = H3z3 + H2z2 + H1z + H0
## Q3z3 + Q2z2 + Q1z + Q0
,
(46)
## Table 2: ’Scenario II’ — resource occupancy of FPGA chip XC7A35T for the considered con-
trollers.
## 6
Conclusions
## 18
LaJe
· ˙y2 −RaFe + kemkme
LaJe
· y2(t)

the where y2(t) represents the system output (DC motor angular speed), u2(t) is the control signal,
Ra = 8.9Ωis the motor armature resistance, La = 4.5mH is the armature inductance, Je = 8e−5kgm2

is the motor moment of inertia, Fe = 12e−5kgm2s/rad is the motor viscous friction coefficient, kem =
0.105Nm/A is the motor torque constant, kme = 0.105Vs/rad is the back electromotive force constant,
and w2(t) represents the user-defined external perturbation (shown in Figure 8b).
In the same manner as in previous scenario in Section 5.2, the discrete forms of the considered
controllers are derived by applying Euler approximation. This means that discrete 1DOF eADRC
controller is realized based on (43). In order to realize 2DOF eADRC controller, discrete form of (31),
assuming first-order filter FR(s) =
1
Trs+1, is obtained as:

with its coefficients given in Appendix A2. Both controllers are implemented in 64-bit fixed-point
format, with sampling period Ts = 0.001s and tuning parameters ωCL = 50rad/s, kESO = 12, and,
assuming complete knowledge of the plant gain, b0 = kem/(JeLa). The additional parameters related
to the 2DOF structure are set to β = 0.6, while two different values of the parameter Tr = {0.03, 0.08}
are analyzed. The control objective is to track a reference trajectory being a square signal filtered by
Gf2(s) =
1
(0.05s+1)2 despite the presence of external disturbance (in Figure 8b) and output measurement
noise (with power Pn = 1 × 10−5 and sampling time Tn = Ts). The obtained FIL simulation results
are presented in Figure 10.

From the obtained results, it is evident that the proposed 2DOF eADRC structure enables the
realization of the set-point response with desired overshoot, rise time and control signal peak, without
the degradation of disturbance rejection performance and noise sensitivity. It is shown that increasing
parameter Tr in 2DOF eADRC controller decreases the system overshoot and control signal peak, but
it also has the effect of increasing the rise time, i.e. increases tracking error peaks. Regarding FPGA
resource consumption, one can see in Table 2 that the 2DOF eADRC controller occupied more FPGA
resource than the 1DOF eADRC controller, however it does not significantly limits its implementation
on low-cost FPGA hardware, such as the used XC7A35T chip.

FPGA resource
1DOF eADRC
2DOF eADRC
Available

LUTs
1005 (4.83%)
3358 (16.14%)
20800 (100%)

FF blocks
216 (0.52%)
432 (1.04%)
41600 (100%)

DSP blocks
52 (57.78%)
69 (76.66%)
90 (100%)

In this work, we have derived formal conditions of equivalence between standard PI/PID controllers
and error-based ADRC structures as well as procedures of going from one structure to another. These

---

## 20
## 40
## 60
## 1DOF eADRC
2DOF eADRC ( Tr=0.03)
2DOF eADRC ( Tr=0.08)
## 0.2 0.4 0.6
## 40
## 50
## 3
3.5
## 0
## 1
## 2
## 50
## 51
## -20
## 0
## 20
## -20
## 0
## 20
## 0
0.5
0
## 10
## 20
## 30
## Overshoot
## Control signal
peak
## Figure 10: ’Scenario II’: results of FPGA-in-the-loop simulation with systems outputs (top);
tracking errors (middle); control signals (bottom).
## Appendix
## A1. Implementation crib sheet
## A2. Coefficients of discrete transfer functions
## • Coefficients of (43):
## M2 = k1l1 + k2l2 + l3;
## M1 = −2M2 + Ts · (k1l2 + k2l3);
## M0 = M2 −Ts · (k1l2 + k2l3) + T 2
s k1l3;
## 19
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
0

9
9.5
10
49

0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

Disturbance
rejection
Disturbance
rejection

procedures facilitate expressing error-based ADRC schemes as standard industrial 1DOF/2DOF con-
trollers and allow the designed controller to have desired characteristic of ADRC (i.e. strong robustness
against internal and external uncertainties) while being expressed in a form familiar in engineering
practice, still being dominated by PI/PID-based control schemes.
These results ensure backward
compatibility of future ADRC-based solutions and contribute to the adoption of active disturbance
rejection-based methods in industrial practice as a viable contender to conventional PI/PID controllers.
The limitation of the proposed methodology of transitioning from error-based ADRC to PI/PID
form is that it seems (at least at the moment) unique to error-based ADRC and is not directly
transferable to other control schemes.

Table 3 serves as an implementation crib sheet for controller types considered in this paper. It is
prepared for the commonly used first (n = 1) and second (n = 2) order systems, containing ready-to-
use transfer functions of PI/PID controllers and eADRC, in both 1DOF and 2DOF forms.

---

## Controller
First-order plant model (n = 1)
Second-order plant model (n = 2)
## s
FY(s)
## b0 · (k1l1+k2l2+l3)·s2+(k1l2+k2l3)·s+k1l3
s3+(k2+l1)·s2+(l2+k1+l1k2)·s
## 2DOF PI/PID
CPI
PF(s) = KPβs+KI
## KPs+KI FR(s)
CPI
FB(s) = KPs+KI
## KDs2+KPs+KI
FR(s)
## FY(s)
CPID
FB (s) = KDs2+KPs+KI
## s
FY(s)
## KPs+KI
FR(s)
## b0 · (k1l1+k2l2+l3)·s2+(k1l2+k2l3)·s+k1l3
s3+(k2+l1)·s2+(l2+k1+l1k2)·s
## 20
Table 3: Implementation crib sheet for commonly used first (n = 1) and second (n = 2) order systems, containing ready-to-use transfer
functions of conventional PI/PID controllers and eADRC, in 1DOF and 2DOF forms. The used acronym ’TF’ stands for transfer function.
Block diagram of the implementation scheme is in Figure 1.

Pre-filter TF
Feedback TF
Pre-filter TF
Feedback TF

1DOF PI/PID
CPI
PF(s) = 1
CPI
FB(s) = KPs+KI

s
CPID
PF (s) = 1
CPID
FB (s) = KDs2+KPs+KI

1DOF eADRC
CA1
PF(s) = CPI
PF(s)C−1
EQ1 = 1
CA1
FB(s) = CPI
FB(s)CEQ1 = 1

b0 · (k1l1+l2)·s+k1l2
s2+(k1+l2)·s
CA2
PF(s) = CPID
PF (s)C−1
EQ2 = 1
CA2
FB(s) = CPID
FB (s)CEQ2 = 1

s
CPID
PF (s) =
KPβs+KI

2DOF eADRC
CA1
PF(s) = CPI
PF(s)C−1
EQ1 = KPβs+KI

FY1(s)
CA1
FB(s) = CPI
FB(s)CEQ1 = 1

b0 · (k1l1+l2)·s+k1l2
s2+(k1+l2)·s
CA2
PF(s) = CPID
PF (s)C−1
EQ2 =
KPβs+KI

KDs2+KPs+KI · FR(s)
FY2(s)
CA2
FB(s) = CPID
FB (s)CEQ2 = 1

---

## N1 = Ts · (k2 + l1) −2;
## N0 = −N1 + T 2
s · (l2 + k1 + l1k2) −1.
## • Coefficients of (44):
## L1 = TsTf;
## L0 = −L1 + T 2
s ;
## P2 =
1
k2l1+l2+k1 ;
## P1 = P2 · (Tsk2l1 −2);
## P0 = P2 · (Tsk2l1 + 1) + T 2
s .
## • Coefficients of (46):
## H3 =
KPβ
k2l1+l2+k1 ;
## H2 = −3H3 + Ts · KPβ+KI(k2+l1)
## k2l1+l2+k1
;
## H1 = 3H3 −2Ts · KPβ+KI(k2+l1)
## k2l1+l2+k1
+ T 2
s KPβ
## + T 2
s · KI(k2+l+1)
## k2l1+l2+k1 ;
## H0 = −H3 + Ts · KPβ+KI(k2+l1)
## k2l1+l2+k1
−T 2
s KPβ
## −T 2
s · KI(k2+l+1)
## k2l1+l2+k1 −T 3
s KI;
## Q3 = KDTr;
## Q2 = −3Q3 + Ts · (KD + KPTr);
## Q1 = 3Q3 −2Ts · (KD + KPTr) + T 2
s · (KP + KITr);
## Q0 = −Q3 + Ts · (KD + KPTr) −T 2
s · (KP + KITr) + T 3
s KI.
## Acknowledgments
## • This work was supported by the International Foreign Expert Project Fund of Jinan University
under grant number G2021199027L
## • This work was supported by the University of Defence in Belgrade under grant VA-TT/1/21-23.
## • There are no relevant financial or non-financial competing interests to report.
## References
## [1] Z. Gao and R. Rhinehart, “Theory vs. practice: the challenges from industry,” in American
Control Conference, vol. 2, pp. 1341–1349, 2004.
## [2] J. Han, “From PID to active disturbance rejection control,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial
Electronics, vol. 56, no. 3, pp. 900–906, 2009.
## [4] Z. Gao, “Scaling and bandwidth-parameterization based controller tuning,” in American Control
Conference, vol. 6, pp. 4989–4996, 2003.
## [6] Z. Gao, “Active disturbance rejection control: a paradigm shift in feedback control system de-
sign,” in American Control Conference, 2006.
## 21
[3] G. Herbst, “A simulative study on active disturbance rejection control (ADRC) as a control tool
for practitioners,” Electronics, vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 246–279, 2013.

[5] G. Herbst, “Transfer function analysis and implementation of active disturbance rejection con-
trol,” Control Theory and Technology, vol. 19, pp. 19–34, 2021.

---

## [15] S. Zhong, Y. Huang, and L. Guo, “A parameter formula connecting PID and ADRC,” Science
China Information Sciences, vol. 63, no. 9, 2020.
## [17] H. Jin and Z. Gao, “On the notions of normality, locality, and operational stability in ADRC,”
Control Theory and Technology, 2023.
## [23] W. Tan, W. Han, and J. Xu, “State-space PID: a missing link between classical and modern
control,” IEEE Access, 2022.
## 22
[7] G. Herbst, “Practical active disturbance rejection control: bumpless transfer, rate limitation, and
incremental algorithm,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 63, no. 3, pp. 1754–
1762, 2016.

[8] M. Nowicki, R. Madonski, and K. Kozlowski, “Disturbance rejection through virtual extension
of the system – geometric approach,” IFAC Proceedings Volumes, vol. 47, no. 3, pp. 7723–7728,
2014.

[9] M. Nowicki, R. Madonski, and K. Kozlowski, “First look at conditions on applicability of ADRC,”
in International Workshop on Robot Motion and Control, pp. 294–299, 2015.

[10] M. R. Stankovic, S. M. Manojlovic, S. M. Simic, S. T. Mitrovic, and M. B. Naumovic, “FPGA
system-level based design of multi-axis ADRC controller,” Mechatronics, vol. 40, pp. 146–155,
2016.

[11] S. Shao and Z. Gao, “On the conditions of exponential stability in active disturbance rejection
control based on singular perturbation analysis,” International Journal of Control, vol. 90, no. 10,
pp. 2085–2097, 2017.

[12] X. Zhang, X. Zhang, W. Xue, and B. Xin, “An overview on recent progress of extended state
observers for uncertain systems: methods, theory, and applications,” Advanced Control for Ap-
plications, vol. 3, no. 2, 2021.

[13] R. Madonski and P. Herman, “Survey on methods of increasing the efficiency of extended state
disturbance observers,” ISA Transactions, vol. 56, pp. 18–27, 2015.

[14] H. Sira-Ramirez, E. W. Zurita-Bustamante, and C. Huang, “Equivalence among flat filters, dirty
derivative-based PID controllers, ADRC, and integral reconstructor-based sliding mode control,”
IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol. 28, no. 5, pp. 1696–1710, 2020.

[16] Z. Wu, Z. Gao, D. Li, Y. Chen, and Y. Liu, “On transitioning from PID to ADRC in thermal
power plants,” Control Theory and Technology, vol. 19, pp. 3–18, 2021.

[18] X. Li, Z. Gao, W. Ai, and S. Tian, “On the equivalence between PID-like controller and LADRC
for second-order systems,” in Data Driven Control and Learning Systems Conference, pp. 1003–
1008, 2020.

[19] H. Sira-Ramirez and E. Zurita-Bustamante, “On the equivalence between ADRC and flat fil-
ter based controllers: a frequency domain approach,” Control Engineering Practice, vol. 107,
p. 104656, 2021.

[20] H. Jin, Y. Chen, and W. Lan, “Replacing PI control with first-order linear ADRC,” in Data
Driven Control and Learning Systems Conference, pp. 1097–1101, 2019.

[21] H. Jin, J. Song, W. Lan, and Z. Gao, “On the characteristics of ADRC: a PID interpretation,”
Science China Information Sciences, vol. 63, no. 10, 2020.

[22] S. Ahmad and A. Ali, “Unified disturbance-estimation-based control and equivalence with IMC
and PID: case study on a DC–DC boost converter,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics,
vol. 68, no. 6, pp. 5122–5132, 2021.

---

## [28] S. Zhong, Y. Huang, and L. Guo, “An ADRC-based PID tuning rule,” International Journal of
Robust and Nonlinear Control, pp. 1–14, 2021.
## [29] M. Huba and Z. Gao, “Uncovering disturbance observer and ultra-local plant models in series PI
controllers,” Symmetry, vol. 14, no. 4, 2022.
## [30] M. Huba, “Disturbance observer in PID controllers for first-order time-delayed systems,” IFAC-
PapersOnLine, vol. 55, no. 17, pp. 19–24, 2022.
## [39] I. M. Horowitz, Synthesis of Feedback Systems. Academic Press, 1963.
## 23
[24] Z. Wu, Makeximu, J. Yuan, Y. Liu, D. Li, and Y. Chen, “A synthesis method for first-order
active disturbance rejection controllers: procedures and field tests,” Control Engineering Practice,
vol. 127, p. 105286, 2022.

[25] C. Zhao, Y. Xue, and C.-E. Huang, “Tuning ADRC for multi-variable system based on existing
PID parameters,” in International Conference on Control, Automation and Systems, pp. 1272–
1277, 2016.

[26] X. Li, Y. Hu, Z. Gao, W. Ai, and S. Tian, “A PID controller based on ESO and tuning method,”
in Data Driven Control and Learning Systems Conference, pp. 1026–1030, 2022.

[27] Z.-Y. Nie, Z. Li, Q.-G. Wang, Z. Gao, and J. Luo, “A unifying Ziegler–Nichols tuning method
based on active disturbance rejection,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control,
vol. n/a, no. n/a, 2021.

[31] R. Madonski, G. Herbst, and M. Stankovic, “ADRC in output and error form: connection,
equivalence, performance,” Control Theory and Technology, vol. 21, pp. 56–71, 2023.

[32] M. M. Michalek, “Robust trajectory following without availability of the reference time-derivatives
in the control scheme with active disturbance rejection,” in American Control Conference,
pp. 1536–1541, 2016.

[33] R. Madonski, S. Shao, H. Zhang, Z. Gao, J. Yang, and S. Li, “General error-based active dis-
turbance rejection control for swift industrial implementations,” Control Engineering Practice,
vol. 84, pp. 218–229, 2019.

[34] R. Madonski, K. Lakomy, and J. Yang, “Comparative study of output-based and error-based
ADRC schemes in application to buck converter-fed DC motor system,” in IEEE Conference on
Decision and Control, pp. 2744–2749, 2020.

[35] M. Stankovic, R. Madonski, S. Shao, and D. Mikluc, “On dealing with harmonic uncertainties
in the class of active disturbance rejection controllers,” International Journal of Control, vol. 94,
no. 10, pp. 2795–2810, 2021.

[36] R. Madonski, M. Ramirez-Neria, M. Stankovic, S. Shao, Z. Gao, J. Yang, and S. Li, “On vibration
suppression and trajectory tracking in largely uncertain torsional system: an error-based ADRC
approach,” Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, vol. 134, p. 106300, 2019.

[37] T. E. Lechekhab, S. Manojlovic, M. Stankovic, R. Madonski, and S. Simic, “Robust error-based
active disturbance rejection control of a quadrotor,” Aircraft Engineering and Aerospace Tech-
nology, vol. 93, pp. 89–104, 2021.

[38] A. Ferdjali, M. Stankovic, S. Manojlovic, R. Madonski, D. Bujakovic, and A. Djenadbia, “Sys-
tematic design of nonlinear ADRC for laser seeker system with FPGA-based rapid prototyping
validation,” Aircraft Engineering and Aerospace Technology, vol. 94, pp. 1087–1099, 2022.

[40] M. Araki and H. Taguchi, “Two-degree-of-freedom PID controllers,” International Journal of
Control, Automation, and Systems, vol. 1, no. 4, pp. 401–411, 2003.

---

## [45] K. J. ˚Astr¨om and R. M. Murray, Feedback Systems: an Introduction for Scientists and Engineers.
Princeton University Press, 2010.
## [47] G. Herbst and R. Madonski, “Tuning and implementation variants of discrete-time ADRC,”
Control Theory and Technology, 2023.
## [48] G. Herbst, “A minimum-footprint implementation of discrete-time ADRC,” in European Control
Conference, pp. 107–112, 2021.
## [49] G. Herbst and R. Madonski, “Tuning and implementation variants of discrete-time ADRC,”
Control Theory and Technology, vol. 21, pp. 72–88, 2023.
## 24
[41] M. R. Matauˇsek and T. B. ˇSekara, “PID controller frequency-domain tuning for stable, integrating
and unstable processes, including dead-time,” Journal of Process Control, vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 17–
27, 2011.

[42] S. Liu, Y.-L. Zhang, W. Xue, G. Shi, M. Zhu, and D. Li, “Frequency response-based decou-
pling tuning for feedforward compensation ADRC of distributed parameter systems,” Control
Engineering Practice, vol. 126, p. 105265, 2022.

[43] T. Huang, G. Hu, Y. Yan, D. Zeng, and Z. Meng, “Combined feedforward and error-based active
disturbance rejection control for diesel particulate filter thermal regeneration,” ISA Transactions,
2022.

[44] K. Lakomy, R. Madonski, B. Dai, J. Yang, P. Kicki, M. Ansari, and S. Li, “Active disturbance
rejection control design with suppression of sensor noise effects in application to DC–DC buck
power converter,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 69, no. 1, pp. 816–824, 2021.

[46] M. Stankovic, M. Naumovic, S. Manojlovic, and S. Simic, “Optimized pure hardware FPGA-
based implementation of active disturbance rejection control,” Electrical Engineering, vol. 100,
no. 1, pp. 111–121, 2018.

